Proxy WebSocket communication through the main thread (#562)
r-wasm/webr: src/docs/networking.qmd

---
title: "Networking"
format: html
toc: true
---

## Networking under WebAssembly

WebAssembly runs in a sandbox environment and doesn't support direct network socket connections for security reasons. This means that traditional R networking and file downloading approaches need some extra work to be used with webR.

Luckily, webR provides two solutions to enable network connectivity:

1. **Basic downloads** using base R's `download.file()`.

> 2. **Advanced networking** with a WebSocket proxy, for packages like curl and httr2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Advanced networking** using a WebSocket proxy, for packages like curl and httr2.
```

## Basic downloads with `download.file()`

For simple file downloads, webR patches the `download.file()` function to work inside a web browser. The patch works by intercepting requests and handling them using JavaScript APIs. This method is easy to use and in many cases is sufficient.

### Limitations

The approach works well for basic HTTP(S) downloads, but it does come with some limitations imposed by the security of the browser environment:

- The server hosting the file must supply CORS ([Cross-Origin Resource Sharing](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CORS)) headers to permit cross-origin requests.

> - Only simple HTTP/HTTPS `GET` requests are supported. You cannot use `POST` requests or set certain HTTP headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only simple HTTP/HTTPS `GET` requests are supported. You cannot use another HTTP method, set headers, or use any of the advanced options available in curl/httr2.
```
